Fitting Hidden Markov Models
Hidden Markov models are usually fit to unlabeled data using the Baum-Welch algorithm or the Viterbi algorithm.
This is a structured EM algorithm that accounts for transitions between distributions as well as the distribution parameters themselves.
Essentially, one uses the forward-backward algorithm to infer the expected number of transitions across each edge
and the expected probability of each observation aligning to each state and uses those estimates to update the underlying parameters.

Algorithms for distribution fitting:
- Metropolis-Hastings
- Genetic Algorithms and Particle Swarm Optimization
- Differential Evolution
- Reinforcement Learning

The simulation model is
1. HMM.get(Observation) -> Current State, State Transition
2. Distr[State] -> Observation Distribution
3. HMM.step() -> Next State

For fitness of simulator model to LOB data, stylized facts are used to evaluate the model:
1. Price changes, on a small enough timescale, are autocorrelated negatively at the first lag and then uncorrelated in further lags.
2. Trading volumes are heterogenous and strongly autocorrelated.
3. Trading volumes exhibit intraday seasonality strongly.
4. Order flow is clustered in time. This implies durations between orders are autocorrelated and there is positive cross-correlation among arrivals of different order types.

In quantitative terms:
1. Empirical Distributions: densities of price, returns (particularly of note is the long-tailed distribution of returns), order volume, arrival rates, joint density of bid and ask queue sizes, time-to-fills.
2. Autocorrelation of returns: the ACF of returns is negative at the first lag and then uncorrelated at further lags.
3. Correlations: Volatility and Volume have positive correlations while Volatility and Returns have a negative correlation in empirical data.
4. Intraday seasonality: Volumes have a signature U-shaped intraday seasonality with increased trading at Open and Close compared to mid-day.
5. Signature Plots: This is defined as the relation between Volatility and Sampling Frequency - generally the empirical observation is that the signature plot decays quite slowly.
6. Average Shape of the Book : The mean of volumes at each price level with respect to mid-price is the quantity of interest here. Generally we observed the so-called ‘M’ shaped average shape for high spread stocks while a inverted ‘V’ shape is observed for low spread stocks.

Despite having such a wide variety of simulators, there is a lack of a parsimonious, explainable, analytically tractable model which has a good representation of most of the stylized facts the model is aiming to track. In our future work as a research group, we plan to tackle this challenge and build a simulator which can be interacted with by an autonomous agent to learn trading strategies on.


# Limited Information Maximum Likelihood Estimation